Veröffentlicht am 08.01.2025 Page 1 / 2
External Announcement Reg.-No. 5-12748/24-H
-Verlängerung der Bewerbungsfrist-
The Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Faculty of Natural Sciences III, Institute of Geosciences and
Geography, invites applications for the 3-year fixed-term position of a
Research Assistant (m-f-d)
to be filled part-time (75 %).
Salary will be in accordance with salary class 13 TV-L, pending classification based on individual capacities
and qualifications.
Arbeitsaufgaben:
• Development of innovative methods for the characterization and evaluation of groundwater resources
• Development of experimental field applications for the observation of groundwater flow and transport pro-
cesses
• Application and further development of methods of numerical simulation and machine learning
• Co-supervision of students and independent teaching of courses
• Publication of high-quality scientific results
The opportunity to gain your own scientific qualification as part of a doctorate is available
Voraussetzungen:
• Completed scientific university degree (Master's, Diploma or equivalent) in natural or engineering sciences
(e.g. engineering, environmental sciences, geosciences, geophysics, physics, mathematics)
• Very good experiences in the application of geoscientific or geophysical methods in the field or in model
• Programming skills (e.g. in Python or Matlab)
• Fluency in written and spoken English. Knowledge of German is an advantage.
• Ability to communicate and work in a team
Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg gives priority to applications from severely disabled candidates with
equivalent qualifications. Women are particularly encouraged to apply. Applicants with a degree that was not
obtained at a German university must submit a certificate assessment for foreign university qualifications (State-
ment of Comparability for Foreign Higher Education Qualifications) from the Central Office for Foreign Education
(https: //www.kmk.org/zab/central-office-for-foreign-education).
For further information, please contact Prof. Peter Bayer, E-Mail: peter.bayer@geo.uni-halle.de. Please visit our
homepage https://applied.geo.uni-halle.de for an insight into the activities of the working group.
Please send your application, stating your registration number, together with your CV, a short letter of motivation
and the contact addresses of two referees by January 26, 2025 to Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg,
Naturwissenschaftliche Fakultät III, Institut für Geowissenschaften und Geographie, Prof. Peter Bayer, 06099 Halle
(Saale). An electronic application is expressly desired (one integral pdf document) to e-mail:
peter.bayer@geo.uni-halle.de.
Veröffentlicht am 08.01.2025 Page 2 / 2
Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg will not reimburse application expenses. Application documents will
only be returned if a prepaid return envelope has been attached. This job vacancy may be subject to budgetary
restrictions.