Leibniz-Institut für Pflanzenbiochemie (IPB)
Weinberg 3 | 06120 Halle (Saale)
www.ipb-halle.de
In a joint recruitment between the Martin-Luther University Halle-Wittenberg (MLU) in the Faculty of Natural Sciences I
– Biosciences and the Leibniz Institute of Plant Biochemistry (IPB) the following position is to be filled on April 1st, 2026:
Full Professor (Chair, W3) of Functional Plant Biology
and Metabolism
The MLU is a modern university with a 500-year tradition of academic excellence and a broad spectrum of international
partner institutions. It is the largest university in Saxony-Anhalt, with around 20,000 students and more than 3,000
employees. The long-term strategy of the MLU is to strengthen the profile areas of “Knowledge Cultures and
Education”, “Sustainability” and “Transformation”.
In the frame of this joint recruitment, the IPB provides:
The Institute recently received funding approval from the German Federal State and the local State of Saxony-Anhalt
for an ambitious Program Center on Metabolomics and Computational Biology (MetaCom), which will reinforce its
capacity in this area and make it a unique location in Germany for Plant Metabolomics.
The IPB has a long research tradition in phytohormones and small molecules. For this exceptional position, we are
seeking outstanding scientists developing innovative research addressing central issues in the area of “Sustainability”
and “Transformation”, within the global topic of chemical mediators. Possible areas include but are not limited to small
molecule signaling, biosynthesis and function of plant specialized metabolites and response to biotic or abiotic stresses.
Candidates should have a track record of research and interdisciplinary cooperation, as evidenced by publications. The
successful candidate will be expected to establish a competitive research department with international renown and
visibility, contribute significantly to common technology platforms, attract extra-mural funds and teach plant
biochemistry and biology. Active and integrative cooperation in common programs of the IPB, especially involving its
analytical and synthetic chemical expertise in the recently established MetaCom center, with the Martin-Luther-
University, for example within Collaborative Research Centers or Research Training Groups and within the Leibniz
Association are expected. This professorship is bound to a teaching obligation of two semester hours per week. Active
participation in the committees of the university is expected. Further duties are set out in Section 34 of the Higher
Education Act of Saxony-Anhalt. Applicants must fulfil the appointment requirements in accordance with Section 35 of
the Higher Education Act of Saxony-Anhalt. In particular, the prerequisites for appointment are a relevant habilitation or
equivalent academic achievements and pedagogical aptitude. In addition, experience in responsible leadership and
management is expected.
Leibniz institutes are mission-oriented, interdisciplinary and legally independent, offering extraordinary infrastructure
and expert know-how. They are devoted to basic and application-oriented research of societal and national relevance
and receive generous basic funding from federal and state resources (http://www.leibniz-gemeinschaft.de/start/).
The MLU and the IPB are equal opportunity employers and especially aim at increasing the number of women in
research and teaching and strongly encourage qualified women to apply. The MLU and the IPB are certified family-
friendly institution and actively committed to promote work-life balance (https://www.ipb-halle.de/en/institute/diversity-
family-equality/family-support/).
Applications from candidates with disabilities are particularly welcome and will be given preference in the event of
equivalent qualification.
Applications with curriculum vitae, certificates, description of academic career, list of publications, scope of previous
third-party funding, proof of previous teaching activities and a research concept on a maximum of two pages describing
the applicant's research programme, underpinning it with the applicant's own most important contributions to the field
and outlining future research plans that use and integrate the research environment at the MLU and the IPB are
requested electronically by Feb. 15th 2025 via the appointment portal of the MLU:
https://berufungsportal.uni-halle.de
For further information, please contact the IPB managing director Prof. Dr. Alain Tissier (E-Mail: atissier@ipb-halle.de;
phone: +49-345-5582-1501).
The IPB will reimburse travel and accommodation costs for candidates that are invited for interview.
APPLY HERE
an energetic and international working environment with a multidisciplinary approach to analyses of natural products
and proteins, molecular interactions, plant microbe interactions, and gene functions.
excellent infrastructure from the existing programs in Natural Products, Chemical Mediators, Interactions and
Engineering,
state of the art instrumentation for metabolomics, proteomics, biochemistry, analytical, synthetic and structural
chemistry, informatics, as well as molecular and cell biology,
a competitive salary incl. civil service benefits (pension etc.) and a start-up funds, in addition to significant scientific
and technical staff and a permanent budget allocated to the department.